#summary One-sentence summary of this page.

= Introduction =

_A5_ is a pipeline for assembling DNA sequence data generated on the Illumina sequencing platform. This README will take you through the steps necessary for running _A5_.

= Installation =

Once you have downloaded and extracted the pipeline, add `a5_pipeline.pl` to executable path. 
{{{
ln -s bin/a5_pipeline.pl ~/bin/a5_pipeline.pl
}}}
Optionally, a5_pipeline.pl can be called by its full path

= Running =

{{{
Usage: a5_pipeline.pl [--begin=1-5] [--end=1-5] [--preprocessed] <lib_file> <out_base>

Or:    a5_pipeline.pl <Read 1 FastQ> <Read 2 FastQ> <out_base>

<out_base> is the base file name for all output files. When assembling from 
a single library, the fastq files may be given directly on the command line.
If using more than one library, a library file must be given as <lib_file>.
The library file must contain the filenames of all read files.

If --preprocessed is used, <lib_file> is expected to be the library file
created during step 2 of the pipeline, named <out_base>.preproc.libs. Note 
that this flag only applies if beginning pipeline after step 2.
}}}

==== Example usage 1 ====
{{{
a5_pipeline.pl my_libs assembly.out
}}}
==== Example usage 2 ====
{{{
a5_pipeline.pl my_reads.1.fastq my_reads.2.fastq assembly.out
}}}
All output will be contained within the directory <output base>. The above example will produce the following directory and files:

Running the pipeline using either of the two examples will produce the following output:

{{{
assembly.out.ec.fastq.gz              // Error corrected reads
assembly.out.contigs.fasta            // Contigs
assembly.out.crude.scaffolds.fasta    // Crude scaffolds:  Not checked for misassemblies
assembly.out.broken.scaffolds.fasta   // Broken scaffolds: Checked for misassemblies, but not rescaffolded
assembly.out.final.scaffolds.fasta    // Final scaffolds:  Checked for misassemblies, and rescaffolded
}}}

If no misassemblies are detected, `assembly.out.broken.scaffolds.fasta` will not be present.

=== If you are using a library file, please read the following. ===

== Making your library file. ==

The library file must contain file paths to all libraries being assembled. 
Separate libraries are delimited in the library file by `[LIB]`. 
For a paired-end or mate-pair library, reads can passed as two files, one for each end, or as a single shuffled file. 
Additionally, unpaired reads can be passed as a single file. 
For a single-end library, reads must be passed as a single file.
Reads must be in FASTQ format. In addition to file locations, you can also give an insert size for paired reads. Please note that this is NOT necessary. The given number will only be used when _A5_ is not able to reliably calculate the insert size.

Example library file:
{{{
[LIB]
p1=library1_p1.fastq
p2=library1_p2.fastq
up=library1_up.fastq
ins=350
[LIB]
shuf=library2.fastq
up=library2.unpaired.fq
ins=6500
[LIB]
up=unpaired_library.fastq
}}}