#summary A tutorial for assembling paired short reads generated on the Illumina platform

= Introduction =

Assembling genomes is fun


= Software Requirements = 
  * Java - Most computers already have Java installed.
  * Perl - Most computers already have Perl installed.
  * [http://code.google.com/p/ngopt/downloads/list NGOpt pipeline]

= Data Requirements = 
  * One or more paired-end dataset in FastQ format in Illumina 1.3+ format. For the tutorial, we will use [http://edhar.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/~andrew/ngopt_pipeline/GECO.tgz GECO.tgz] 
    * Single-end datasets may be included in addition to paired-end datasets

= Installing NGOpt pipeline =
After you download the archive from the link given above, extract the archive.
{{{
$ tar -xzf ngopt_pipeline_PLATFORM-x64.tar.gz 
}}}
Now add `ngopt_pipeline_PLATFORM-x64/bin/a5_pipeline.pl` to your executable path. You can also call the pipeline directly without adding it to your executable path.

= Running NGOpt pipeline =
The following instructions will assume you have downloaded and are using the test data from the tarball [http://edhar.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/~andrew/ngopt_pipeline/GECO.tgz GECO.tgz] and that these files are located in the current working directory.
{{{
cd ngopt_a5pipeline_PLATFORM-x64
bin/a5_pipeline.pl GECO.libs test
}}}
When complete, the current working directory will contain the final product of each step in the pipeline.

= A complete example on the Linux command line =
The following commands can be copied and pasted into a Linux Terminal
{{{
#
# Get software
#
wget http://ngopt.googlecode.com/files/ngopt_a5pipeline_linux-x64.tar.gz
tar -xzvf ngopt_a5pipeline_linux-x64.tar.gz

#
# Make a temp directory for organizational purposes, as many output files will be generated
#
mkdir ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64/ngopt_tutorial
cd ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64/ngopt_tutorial

#
# Get data
#
wget http://edhar.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/~andrew/ngopt_pipeline/GECO.tgz
tar -xzvf GECO.tgz

#
# Run pipeline
#
../bin/a5_pipeline.pl GECO.libs test

}}}

= A complete example on the MacOS command line =
The following commands can be copied and pasted into the MacOS Terminal
{{{
#
# Get software
#
curl -o ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64.tar.gz http://ngopt.googlecode.com/files/ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64.tar.gz
tar -xzvf ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64.tar.gz

#
# Make a temp directory for organizational purposes, as many output files will be generated
#
mkdir ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64/ngopt_tutorial
cd ngopt_a5pipeline_macOS-x64/ngopt_tutorial

#
# Get data
#
curl -o GECO.tgz http://edhar.genomecenter.ucdavis.edu/~andrew/ngopt_pipeline/GECO.tgz
tar -xzvf GECO.tgz

#
# Run pipeline
#
../bin/a5_pipeline.pl GECO.libs test

}}}