#summary A simple example for correcting errors in Illumina reads

= This page is under construction =
= Introduction =

This page will describe how to use NGOpt tools with Reptile to correct errors in Illumina reads.

= Prerequisites =
You will need the following packages/programs. They will need to be in your executable path:
 * [http://aluru-sun.ece.iastate.edu/doku.php?id=reptile Reptile] - error-correction software 
 * NGOpt toolkit
== Step 1.  Convert Fastq to Fasta+Qual Files.== 
In the directory containing `pe_shuf.fastq`, run:
  {{{
  <ngopt_trunk>/tools/quality/reptile_fq-converter ./ ./  2 
  }}}
   This will create *three* files, `pe_shuf.fa` , `pe_shuf.q`, and `pe_shuf.map.txt`. Because Reptile changes the original sequence names to arbitrary names, I have posted a hack on NGOpt that will produce a `.map.txt` file. We will use this file later to rename our reads to the original names.
  Note: All files ending in .fastq in the current directory will be processed.
== Step 2. Create Reptile Config-File ==
Copy the Reptile config-file template from the Reptile directory and change as needed.
  {{{
  cp <path_to_reptile>/src/config~ ./pe_shuf.rec.conf
  vim pe_shuf.rec.conf
  }}}
Edit `pe_shuf.rec.conf` to specify input and output files. 
 * Modify line beginning with "`InFaFile`"  to contain `pe_shuf.fa`
 * Modify line beginning with "`IQFile`" to contain `pe_shuf.q`  
 * Modify line beginning with "`OErrFile`" to contain the desired name of the output file. 
  * This output file will not be corrected reads. We are going to run another command on this file to get our corrected reads. Let's call the file `reptile-output` 
If you are more educated in the Reptile Error Correction process, feel free to modify any of other run configurations. 
== Step 3. Run Reptile Error Correction ==
Run `reptile` with the config file from previous step.
  {{{
  reptile pe_shuf.rec.conf
  }}}
This will produce the file `reptile-output`, as mentioned in the previous step. 
== Step 4. Merge Corrections ==
Now that we've identified our errors, we will merge them to get back corrected reads.
{{{
  reptile_merger pe_shuf.fa reptile-output pe_shuf.rec.fasta
}}}
The third argument to `reptile_merger` is the output file. This file will contain our corrected reads.
== Step 5. Rename Corrected Reads ==
To get back the original read names, we can use a script from NGOpt--`reptile_rename`.
{{{
<ngopt_trunk>/tools/quality/reptile_rename pe_shuf.map.txt pe_shuf.rec.fasta > pe_shuf.rec.renamed.fasta
}}}
We now have  corrected reads with their original names in `pe_shuf.rec.renamed.fasta`.
== Where to next? ==
 If you have a paired-end library, you might want to re-pair reads with broken pairings. You can use the program `repair` in the NGOpt toolkit to fix broken pairings. 

